Pawn
1
Can advance one or two squares without capturing.
Can move one square forward diagonally to capture only.
Can capture other pawns en passant:
When an enemy pawn advances two squares and ends up to to the left or right of your pawn,
your pawn can take that enemy pawn as if it had advanced only one square.
This special capture can only be done during the first turn it is possible.
A pawn reaching the last row of the board is promoted to a unicorn.

King
0
Can move one square in any direction.
If the king can be captured, you are in check. Any move that would leave you in check is illegal.
If you are in check and have no legal move, you lose the game.

Knight
4
Can move to the opposite corner of a 2x3 or 3x2 rectangle, jumping over any pieces in its way.
This way, the knight always changes the color of the square it stands on when moving.

Bishop
8
Can move in any diagonal direction until a piece or the rim of the board stops it.
This way, the bishop never leaves the color of the square it stands on.

Rook
11
Can move in any orthogonal direction until a piece or the rim of the board stops it.

Queen
21
Can move in any direction until a piece or the rim of the board stops it.
The queen combines the powers of the rook and the bishop.

Elephant
2
Can move one or two squares diagonally. When moving two squares, it may jump to reach its destination.
This way, the elephant never leaves the color of the square it stands on.

Machine
3
Can move one or two squares orthogonally. When moving two squares, it may jump to reach its destination.

Ship
10
Can move one square diagonally and then up or down, away from its position,
until a piece or the rim of the board stops it.
A ship reaching a corner of the opponent's side is promoted to a gryphon.

Buffoon
6
Can move one square in any direction, like a king, without being hindered by check.
A buffoon reaching the first row on the opponent's side of the board promotes to a queen.

Centurion
2
Can advance one or two squares without capturing.
Can move one square forward diagonally, allowing it to capture.
Can capture other pawns and centurion en passant: When an enemy pawn or centurion advances
two squares and ends up to to the left or right of your centurion,
your centurion can take that enemy piece as if it had advanced only one square.
This special capture can only be done during the first turn it is possible.
A centurion reaching the last row of the board is promoted to your choice of a queen, lion or gryphon.

Lion
15
Can jump to any square within a 5x5 region centered on it.
The lion combines the powers of the elephant, machine and knight.

Gryphon
20
Can move one square diagonally and then orthogonally away until a piece or the rim of the board stops it.

Antelope
6
Can move two or three squares in any direction, jumping over any pieces in its way.

Camel
3
Can jump to the opposite corner of a 2x4 or 4x2 rectangle, jumping over any pieces in it way.
This way, the camel never leaves the color of the square it stands on.

Bow
8
Can move diagonally like a bishop without capturing.
To capture an enemy piece, the bow also moves diagonally but has to jump over exactly one piece.
This way, the bow never leaves the color of the square it stands on.

Bull
4
Can jump to the opposite corner of a 3x4 or 4x3 rectangle, jumping over any pieces in it way.
This way, the bull always changes the color of the square it stands on when moving.

Cannon
11
Can move orthogonally like a rook without capturing.
To capture an enemy piece, the cannon also moves orthogonally but has to jump over exactly one piece.

Buffalo
13
Can jump to the opposite corner of a 2x3, 3x2, 2x4, 4x2, 3x4 or 4x3 rectangle, ignoring pieces in its way.
The buffalo combines the powers of the knight, camel and bull.

Rhinoceros
17
Jumps like a knight and then moves diagonally away until a piece or the rim of the board stops it.
This way, the rhinoceros always changes the color of the square it stands on when moving.

Star
21
Can move in any direction without capturing, like a queen.
To capture an enemy piece, the star also moves like a queen but has to jump over exactly one piece.

Unicorn
24
Can move in any direction like a queen or to the opposite corner of a 2x3 or 3x2 rectangle like a knight.

Dragonwoman
13
Can move orthogonally like a rook or to the opposite corner of a 2x3 or 3x2 rectangle like a knight.

Diablo
10
Can move diagonally like a bishop or to the opposite corner of a 2x3 or 3x2 rectangle like a knight.
